---
comments: false
date: 2002-05-09 00:27:30
layout: post
slug: hiking-trip
title: Hiking Trip
wordpress_id: 106
---

Well, minutes after I wrote Sunday's entry, my friend and hiking companion Mike told me that the weather forecast in the Shenandoah National Park area for this week was non-stop rain and thunder storms.  Not quite the way I wanted to spend my vacation between school and work.  So instead, we decided to leave Tuesday and hike a four-day route up in the White Mountains of New Hampshire.  Not a bad idea on paper, but there turned out to be a few more obstacles than we had planned for.

Here's a bit of advice from me to you: if you ever want to go up to the White Mountains, make sure you wait until June or July.  On our first day (Tuesday) we planned to head nine miles up this one trail, called the Dry River Trail.  The trail starts at an elevation of 1200 feet, and it ends up at about 5000 feet. Well, at about 2000 feet we start noticing small patches of snow on and around the trail.  By 2500 feet, we're regularly walking through the stuff and by the time we reach 3000 feet, we're walking on top of three feet of snow.  Well, it turns out that this trail isn't marked at all, so since we can't see the ground below us, we figure as long as we follow along the river we'd be OK.  Let me just tell you that walking through the woods on top of three feet of snow with thirty-plus pounds of gear on your back is no fun at all.  We would regularly fall straight through the snow and land on whatever was below: fallen trees, mud puddles, rocks, streams, anything. To make matters worse, sometimes there would be no real way to go so we would have to guess where the trail might be leading had we been able to see it through the snow.  We had to make these guesses quite frequently.  Anyway, after about two hours of trudging through the snow-covered "trail" we notice that we have absolutely no idea where we are and it would be completely futile to continue the bushwhacking that we were doing.  So we decided not to tempt fate and to turn around, retrace our steps through the damned snow, and camp at the first reasonable place we saw below the snow line. Eight hours after we began, we arrived at our camp.

That was day one.  For the rest of our trip, the itinerary involved walking and camping above 3000 feet, including summiting Mount Washington (over 6000 feet).  Perhaps you see what our problem was.  So on Wednesday we decided on a new route, one that would take us to a shelter at about 2500 feet on a trail called the Mount Clinton Trail.  The problem with _this_ turned out to be the fact that we needed to cross Dry River near the beginning of that trail.  Now you would think "Dry" River would be easy to cross, right? Well, it turns out that Dry River is anything but.  In fact, it was more like Class-Five-Rapids River.  Crossing this thing would mean certian death.  So since that plan was shattered, we decided to finish out the day by picking up the Appalachian Trail near where we started on Tuesday. Walking for two more hours up some very steep trail, then walking though some more snow (not quite waist deep this time) we camped at about 2800 feet.

Now here we were faced with another problem. From this place (called Ethan Pond Shelter), we couldn't really get to any other sub-3000-foot tent site or shelter within a day's walk.  Since there's no backcountry camping allowed in the Pemigewasset Wilderness, we were faced with a dilemma.  So we decided that on Thursday we would do a loop and come back and camp at the same place.  Then we heard the weather report: non-stop rain and thunderstorms all day Thursday and Thursday night. So Thursday morning, after sleeping at Ethan Pond, we said screw this and headed back to the car to go home.  We just barely beat the rain.

OK, so that sums up our much-anticipated hiking trip.  Would I say it was a disaster? Well, not really, since it was still a ton of fun.  Our carefully laid out plan certainly couldn't be followed so that added an extra element of uncertainty.  Unfortunately, since we were limited to certain elevations, we didn't have many options for new plans, and that's where I think we got screwed.  Anyway, I still have the itinerary and if I get four days off in June or July you bet I'm gonna head up there again!
